Add blog post for Apple minimum versions increase (#1140)
rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org: posts/2023-09-05-Increasing-Apple-Version-Requirements.md

- `armv7s-apple-ios` (Minimum OS raised)
- `i386-apple-ios` (Minimum OS raised)
- `i686-apple-darwin` (Minimum OS raised)
- `x86_64-apple-tvos` (Minimum tvOS *and macOS* version raised. This is also a simulator target.)

From these changes, only one target has been removed entirely: `armv7-apple-ios`. It was a tier 3 target.

Note that Mac Catalyst and M1/M2 (`aarch64`) Mac targets are not affected, as their minimum OS version already has a higher baseline. Refer to the [Platform Support Guide](https://doc.rust-lang.org/rustc/platform-support.html) for more information.

# Affected systems

These changes remove support for multiple older iDevices and many more Mac systems. Thanks to `@madsmtm` for [compiling the list](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/104385#issuecomment-1317830217).

As of this update, the following devices are no longer supported by the latest Rust toolchain:

### iOS

-   iPhone 4S (Released in 2011)
-   iPad 2 (Released in 2011)
-   iPad, 3rd generation (Released in 2012)
-   iPad Mini, 1st generation (Released in 2012)
-   iPod Touch, 5th generation (Released in 2012)

### macOS

> A total of 27 Mac computers, released between 2007 and 2009, are no longer supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A total of 27 Mac models, released between 2007 and 2009, are no longer supported.
```
> A total of 27 Mac computers

makes it sound a bit like only 27 physical devices are actually affected. I'm not sure whether model is the best word here though.

Author: I own all 27 of those physical devices /s

Went for "system models" to ideally make it non-confusable.

---
layout: post
title: "Increasing the minimum supported Apple platform versions"
author: BlackHoleFox
description: "Modernizing and improving Apple platform support for Rust"
---

> As of Rust <CURRENT_RUST_VERSION/> (to be released on <DATE/>), the minimum version of Apple's platforms (iOS, macOS, and tvOS) that the Rust toolchain supports will be [increased](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/104385) to newer minimums. These changes affect both the Rust compiler itself (`rustc`), other host tooling, and most importantly, the standard library and any binaries produced that use it. With these changes in place, any binaries produced will stop loading on older versions or exhibit other, unspecified, behavior.

Author: Adding a callout for this placeholder which needs filled in once the actual PR with the changes merges and we know what release its scheduled for.

Author: The PR merged so it should be in 1.74 if all goes well, updated.

The new minimum versions are now:
- macOS: 10.12 Sierra (First released 2016)
- iOS: 10 (First released 2016)
- tvOS: 10 (First released 2016)

If your application does not target or support macOS 10.7-10.11 or iOS 7-9 already these changes most likely do not affect you.

# Affected targets

The following contains each affected target, and the comprehensive effects on it:
- `x86_64-apple-darwin` (Minimum OS raised)
- `aarch64-apple-ios` (Minimum OS raised)
- `aarch64-apple-ios-sim` (Minimum iOS *and macOS* version raised.)

> - `x86_64-apple-ios` (Minimum iOS *and macOS* version raised. This is also simulator target.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `x86_64-apple-ios` (Minimum iOS *and macOS* version raised. This is also a simulator target.)
```

Author: Thanks :)

- `aarch64-apple-tvos` (Minimum OS raised)

> - `armv7-apple-ios` (Target removed. This oldest iOS 10-compatible device uses ARMv7s)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `armv7-apple-ios` (Target removed. The oldest iOS 10-compatible device uses ARMv7s)
```

- `armv7s-apple-ios` (Minimum OS raised)
- `i386-apple-ios` (Minimum OS raised)
- `i686-apple-darwin` (Minimum OS raised)
- `x86_64-apple-tvos` (Minimum tvOS *and macOS* version raised. This is also a simulator target.)

From these changes, only one target has been removed entirely: `armv7-apple-ios`. It was a tier 3 target.

> Note that Mac Catalyst and M1/M2 (`aarch64`) Mac targets are not affected, as their minimum OS version already has a higher baseline. Refer to the [Platform Support Guide](https://doc.rust-lang.org/rustc/platform-support.html) for more information.

Author: Corrected 👍

### iOS

-   iPhone 4S (Released in 2011)
-   iPad 2 (Released in 2011)
-   iPad, 3rd generation (Released in 2012)
-   iPad Mini, 1st generation (Released in 2012)
-   iPod Touch, 5th generation (Released in 2012)

### macOS

A total of 27 Mac system models, released between 2007 and 2009, are no longer supported.

The affected systems are not comprehensively listed here, but external resources exist which contain lists of the exact models. They can be found [from Apple](https://support.apple.com/kb/SP742?locale=en_US) and [Yama-Mac](https://yama-mac.com/en/macos_correspondence_table/#toc4), for example.

### tvOS

The third generation AppleTV (released 2012-2013) is no longer supported.

# Why are the requirements being changed?

Prior to now, Rust claimed support for very old Apple OS versions, but many never even received passive testing or support. This is a rough place to be for a toolchain, as it hinders opportunities for improvement in exchange for a support level many people, or everyone, will never utilize. For Apple's mobile platforms, many of the old versions are now even unable to receive new software due to App Store publishing restrictions.

> Additionally, the past two years have clearly indicated that Apple, the sole controller of toolchains for these targets, are making it difficult-to-impossible to support them anymore. As of XCode 14, last year's toolchain release, building for many old OS versions [became unsupported](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xcode-release-notes/xcode-14-release-notes). XCode 15 continues this. After enough time, continuing to use an older toolchain can even lead to breaking build issues for others.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Additionally, the past two years have clearly indicated that Apple, which has tight control over toolchains for these targets, is making it difficult-to-impossible to support them anymore. As of XCode 14, last year's toolchain release, building for many old OS versions [became unsupported](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xcode-release-notes/xcode-14-release-notes). XCode 15 continues this trend. After enough time, continuing to use an older toolchain can even lead to breaking build issues for others.
```

Author: Ahh that reads way better, thanks.

-  If you are running the Rust compiler or other host tools that were previously supported, consider cross-compiling from a newer host instead. You may also no longer be able to depend on the Rust standard library.
- If none of these options work, you may need to freeze the version of the Rust toolchain your project builds with. Alternatively, you may be able to maintain a custom toolchain that supports your requirements for any sub-component of it.

If your project does not directly support a specific version, but instead depends on a default previously used by Rust, there are some steps you can take
to help improve. For example, a number of crates in the ecosystem have hardcoded Rust's default support versions since they haven't changed for a long time:
- If you use the `cc` crate to include build languages into your project, a [future update](https://github.com/rust-lang/cc-rs/pull/848) will handle this transparently.
- If you need a minimum OS version for anything else, crates should query the new `rustc --print deployment-target` option for a default, or user-set, value 

> on newer toolchains going forward. Hardcoded defaults should only be used for older toolchains where this is unavailable.

Reviewer 3: Maybe specify the first rust version in which `--print deployment-target` was stabilized? It seems to be stable on current stable at least.

Author: It insta-stabilized in 1.71, but I'll add that since its a good call.
